I’ve got to get out into the world, though, trick myself into thinking
it is any other day. I’ve got to see Dad at the hospital and hold his
hand for the first time since I was a kid and for what will be the
last . . . wow, the last time ever.
I’ll be gone before I can adjust to my mortality.
I also have to see Lidia and her one-year-old, Penny. Lidia
named me Penny’s godfather when the baby was born, and it sucks
how I’m the person expected to take care of her in case Lidia passes
away since Lidia’s boyfriend, Christian, died a little over a year ago.
Sure, how is an eighteen-year-old with no income going to take care
of a baby? Short answer: He isn’t. But I was supposed to get older
and tell Penny stories of her world-saving mother and chill father and
welcome her into my home when I was financially secure and
emotionally prepared to do so. Now I’m being whisked out of her life
before I can become more than some guy in a photo album who
Lidia may tell stories about, during which Penny will nod her head,
maybe make fun of my glasses, and then flip the page to family she
actually knows and cares about. I won’t even be a ghost to her. But
that’s no reason to not go tickle her one more time or wipe squash
and green peas off her face, or give Lidia a little break so she can
focus on studying for her GED or brush her teeth or comb her hair or
take a nap.
After that, I will somehow pull myself away from my best friend
and her daughter, and I will have to go and live.
I turn off the faucet and the water stops raining down on me;
today isn’t the day for an hour shower. I grab my glasses off the sink
and put them on. I step out of the tub, slipping on a puddle of water,
and while falling backward I’m expecting to see if that theory of your
life flashing before your eyes carries any truth to it when I grab hold
of the towel rack and catch myself. I breathe in and out, in and out,
because dying this way would just be an extremely unfortunate way
to go; someone would add me to the “Shower KO” feed on the
DumbDeaths blog, a high-traffic site that grosses me out on so many
levels.
I need to get out of here and live—but first I have to make it out of
this apartment alive.
12:56 a.m.
I write thank-you notes for my neighbors in 4F and 4A, telling them
it’s my End Day. With Dad in the hospital, Elliot in 4F has been
checking in on me, bringing me dinner, especially since our stove
has been busted for the past week after I tried making Dad’s
empanadas. Sean in 4A was planning on stopping by on Saturday to
fix the stove’s burner, but it’s not necessary anymore. Dad will know
how to fix it and might need a distraction when I’m gone.
I go into my closet and pull out the blue-and-gray flannel shirt
Lidia got me for my eighteenth birthday, then put it on over my white
T-shirt. I haven’t worn it outside yet. The shirt is how I get to keep
Lidia close today.
I check my watch—an old one of Dad’s he gave me after buying
a digital one that could glow, for his bad eyes—and it’s close to 1:00
a.m. On a regular day, I would be playing video games until late at
night, even if it meant going to school exhausted. At least I could fall
asleep during my free periods. I shouldn’t have taken those frees for
granted. I should’ve taken up another class, like art, even though I
can’t draw to save my life. (Or do anything to save my life, obviously,
and I want to say that’s neither here nor there, but it pretty much is
everything, isn’t it?) Maybe I should’ve joined band and played
piano, gotten some recognition before working my way up to singing
in the chorus, then maybe a duet with someone cool, and then
maybe braving a solo. Heck, even theater could’ve been fun if I’d
gotten to play a role that forced me to break out. But no, I elected for
another free period where I could shut down and nap.
It’s 12:58 a.m. When it hits 1:00 I am forcing myself out of this
apartment. It has been both my sanctuary and my prison and for
once I need to go breathe in the outside air instead of tearing
through it to get from Point A to Point B. I have to count trees, maybe
sing a favorite song while dipping my feet in the Hudson, and just do
my best to be remembered as the young man who died too early.
It’s 1:00 a.m.
I can’t believe I’m never returning to my bedroom.
I unlock the front door, turn the knob, and pull the door open.
I shake my head and slam the door shut.
I’m not walking out into a world that will kill me before my time.
RUFUS EMETERIO
1:05 a.m.
Death-Cast is hitting me up as I’m beating my ex-girlfriend’s new
boyfriend to death. I’m still on top of this dude, pinning his shoulders
down with my knees, and the only reason I’m not clocking him in the
eye again is because of the ringing coming from my pocket, that loud
Death-Cast ringtone everyone knows too damn well either from
personal experience, the news, or every shitty show using the alert
for that dun-dun-dun effect. My boys, Tagoe and Malcolm, are no
longer cheering on the beat-down. They’re dead quiet and I’m
waiting for this punk Peck’s phone to go off too. But nothing, just my
phone. Maybe the call telling me I’m about to lose my life just saved
his.
“You gotta pick it up, Roof,” Tagoe says. He was recording the
beat-down because watching fights online is his thing, but now he’s
staring at his phone like he’s scared a call is coming for him too.
“The hell I do,” I say. My heart is pounding mad fast, even faster
than when I first moved up on Peck, even faster than when I first
decked him and laid him out. Peck’s left eye is swollen already, and
there’s still nothing but pure terror in his right eye. These Death-Cast
calls go strong until three. He don’t know for sure if I’m about to take
him down with me.
I don’t know either.
My phone stops ringing.
“Maybe it was a mistake,” Malcolm says.
My phone rings again.
Malcolm stays shut.
I wasn’t hopeful. I don’t know stats or nothing like that, but Death-
Cast fucking up alerts isn’t exactly common news. And we Emeterios
haven’t exactly been lucky with staying alive. But meeting our maker
way ahead of time? We’re your guys.
I’m shaking and that buzzing panic is in my head, like someone is
punching me nonstop, because I have no idea how I’m gonna go,
just that I am. And my life isn’t exactly flashing before my eyes, not
that I expect it to later on when I’m actually at death’s edge.
Peck squirms from underneath me and I raise my fist so he calms
the hell down.
“Maybe he got a weapon on him,” Malcolm says. He’s the giant of
our group, the kind of guy who would’ve been helpful to have around
when my sister couldn’t get her seat belt off as our car flipped into
the Hudson River.
Before the call, I would’ve bet anything Peck doesn’t have any
weapon on him, since we’re the ones who jumped him when he was
coming out of work. But I’m not betting my life, not like this. I drop my
phone. I pat him down and flip him over, checking his waistband for a
pocketknife. I stand and he stays down.
Malcolm drags Peck’s backpack out from under the blue car
where Tagoe threw it. He unzips the backpack and flips it over,
letting some Black Panther and Hawkeye comics hit the ground.
“Nothing.”
Tagoe rushes toward Peck and I swear he’s about to kick him like
his head’s a soccer ball, but he grabs my phone off the ground and
answers the call. “Who you calling for?” His neck twitch surprises no
one. “Hold up, hold up. I ain’t him. Hold up. Wait a sec.” He holds out
the phone. “You want me to hang up, Roof?”
I don’t know. I still have Peck, bloodied and beat, in the parking
lot of this elementary school, and it’s not like I need to take this call
to make sure Death-Cast isn’t actually calling to tell me I won the
lottery. I snatch the phone from Tagoe, pissed and confused, and I
might throw up but my parents and sister didn’t so maybe I won’t
either.
“Watch him,” I tell Tagoe and Malcolm. They nod. I don’t know
how I became the alpha dog. I ended up in the foster home years
after them.
I give myself some distance, as if privacy actually matters, and
make sure I stay out of the light coming from the exit sign. Not trying
to get caught in the middle of the night with blood on my knuckles.
“Yeah?”
“Hello. This is Victor from Death-Cast calling to speak with Rufus
Emmy-terio.”
He butchers my last name, but there’s no point correcting him. No
one else is around to carry on the Emeterio name. “Yeah, it’s me.”
“Rufus, I regret to inform you that sometime in the next twenty-
four hours—”
“Twenty-three hours,” I interrupt, pacing back and forth from one
end of this car to the other. “You’re calling after one.” It’s bullshit.
Other Deckers got their alert an hour ago. Maybe if Death-Cast
called an hour ago I wouldn’t have been waiting outside the
restaurant where freshman-year college-dropout Peck works so I
could chase him into this parking lot.
“Yes, you’re right. I’m sorry,” Victor says.
I’m trying to stay shut ’cause I don’t wanna take my problems out
on some guy doing his job, even though I have no idea why the hell
anyone applies for this position in the first place. Let’s pretend I got a
future for a second, entertain me—in no universe am I ever waking
up and saying, “I think I’ll get a twelve-to-three shift where I do
nothing but tell people their lives are over.” But Victor and others did.
I don’t wanna hear none of that don’t-kill-the-messenger business
either, especially when the messenger is calling to tell me I’ll be
straight wrecked by day’s end.
“Rufus, I regret to inform you that sometime in the next twenty-
three hours you’ll be meeting an untimely death. While there isn’t
anything I can do to suspend that, I’m calling to inform you of your
options for the day. First of all, how are you doing? It took a while for
you to answer. Is everything okay?”
He wants to know how I’m doing, yeah right. I can hear it in the
stunted way he asked me, he doesn’t actually care about me any
more than he does the other Deckers he gotta call tonight. These
calls are probably monitored and he’s not trying to lose his job by
speeding through this.
“I don’t know how I’m doing.” I squeeze my phone so I don’t
throw it against the wall painted with little white and brown kids
holding hands underneath a rainbow. I look over my shoulder and
Peck is still face-first on the ground as Malcolm and Tagoe stare at
me; they better make sure he doesn’t run away before we can figure
out what we’re doing with him. “Just tell me my options.” This should
be good.
Victor tells me the forecast for the day (supposed to rain before
noon and later on as well if I make it that long), special festivals I
have zero interest in attending (especially not a yoga class on the
High Line, rain or no rain), formal funeral arrangements, and
restaurants with the best Decker discounts if I use today’s code. I
zone out on everything else ’cause I’m anxious on how the rest of
my End Day is gonna play out.
“How do you guys know?” I interrupt. Maybe this dude will take
pity on me and I can clue in Tagoe and Malcolm on this huge
mystery. “The End Days. How do you know? Some list? Crystal ball?
Calendar from the future?” Everyone stays speculating on how
Death-Cast receives this life-changing information. Tagoe told me
about all these crazy theories he read online, like Death-Cast
consulting a band of legit psychics and a really ridiculous one with an
alien shackled to a bathtub and forced by the government to report
End Days. There are mad things wrong with that theory, but I don’t
have time to comment on them right now.
“I’m afraid that information isn’t available to heralds either,” Victor
claims. “We’re equally curious, but it’s not knowledge we need to
perform our job.” Another flat answer. I bet you anything he knows
and can’t say if he wants to keep his job.
Screw this guy. “Yo, Victor, be a person for one minute. I don’t
know if you know, but I’m seventeen. Three weeks from my
eighteenth birthday. Doesn’t it piss you off that I’ll never go to
college? Get married? Have kids? Travel? Doubt it. You’re just
chilling on your little throne in your little office because you know you
got another few decades ahead of you, right?”
Victor clears his throat. “You want me to be a person, Rufus? You
want me to get off my throne and get real with you? Okay. An hour
ago I got off the phone with a woman who cried over how she won’t
be a mother anymore after her four-year-old daughter dies today.
She begged me to tell her how she can save her daughter’s life, but
no one has that power. And then I had to put in a request to the
Youth Department to dispatch a cop just in case the mother is
responsible, which, believe it or not, is not the most disgusting thing
I’ve done for this job. Rufus, I feel for you, I do. But I’m not at fault for
your death, and I unfortunately have many more of these calls to
make tonight. Can you do me a solid and cooperate?”
Damn.
I cooperate for the rest of the call, even though this dude has no
business telling me anyone else’s, but all I can think about is the
mother whose daughter will never attend the school right behind me.
At the end of the call Victor gives me that company line I’ve grown
used to hearing from all the new TV shows and movies incorporating
Death-Cast into the characters’ day-to-days: “On behalf of Death-
Cast, we are sorry to lose you. Live this day to the fullest.”
I can’t tell you who hangs up first, but it doesn’t matter. The
damage is done—will be done. Today is my End Day, a straight-up
Rufus Armageddon. I don’t know how this is gonna go down. I’m
praying I don’t drown like my parents and sis. The only person I’ve
done dirty is Peck, for real, so I’m counting on not getting shot, but
who knows, misfires happen too. The how doesn’t matter as much
as what I do before it goes down, but not knowing is still freaking
shaking me; you only die once, after all.
Maybe Peck is gonna be responsible for this.
I walk back over to the three of them, fast. I pick Peck up by the
back of his collar and then slam him against the brick wall. Blood
slides from an open wound on his forehead, and I can’t believe this
dude threw me over the edge like this. He should’ve never run his
mouth about all the reasons Aimee didn’t want me anymore. If that’d
never gotten back to me, my hand wouldn’t be around his throat right
now, getting him even more scared than I am.
“You didn’t ‘beat’ me, okay? Aimee didn’t split with me because of
you, so get that out of your head right now. She loved me and we got
complicated, and she would’ve taken me back eventually.” I know
this is legit—Malcolm and Tagoe think so too. I lean in on Peck,
looking him dead-on in his only good eye. “I better never see you
again for the rest of my life.” Yeah, yeah. Not much life left. But this
dude is a fucking clown and might get funny. “You feel me?”
Peck nods.
I let go of his throat and grab his phone out of his pocket. I hurl it
against the wall and the screen is totaled. Malcolm stomps it out.
“Get the hell out of here.”
Malcolm grabs my shoulder. “Don’t let him go. He’s got those
connections.”
Peck slides along the wall, nervous, like he’s scaling across some
windows high up in the city.
I shake Malcolm off my shoulder. “I said get the hell out of here.”
Peck takes off, running in a dizzying zigzag. He never looks back
once to see if we’re coming for him or stops for his comics and
backpack.
“I thought you said he’s got friends in some gang,” Malcolm says.
“What if they come for you?”
“They’re not a real gang, and he was the gang reject. I got no
reason to get scared of a gang that let Peck in. He can’t even call
them or Aimee, we took care of that.” I wouldn’t want him reaching
out to Aimee before I can. I gotta explain myself, and, I don’t know,
she may not wanna see me if she figures out what I did, End Day or
not.
“Death-Cast can’t call him either,” Tagoe says, his neck twitching
twice.
“I wasn’t gonna kill him.”
Malcolm and Tagoe are quiet. They saw the way I was laying into
him, like I had no off button.
I can’t stop shaking.
I could’ve killed him, even if I didn’t mean to. I don’t know if I
would’ve been able to live with myself or not if I did end up snuffing
him gone. Nah, that’s a lie and I know it, I’m just trying to be hard.
But I’m not hard. I’ve barely been able to live with myself for
surviving something my family didn’t—something that wasn’t even
my fault. There’s no way in hell I would’ve been chill with myself for
beating someone to death.
I storm toward our bikes. My handles are tangled in Tagoe’s
wheel from after we chased Peck here, jumping off our bikes to
tackle him. “You guys can’t follow me,” I say, picking my bike up.
“You get that, right?”
“Nah, we’re with you, just—”
“Not happening,” I interrupt. “I’m a ticking time bomb, and even if
you’re not blowing up when I do, you might get burned—maybe
literally.”
